AND
WHERE'S MY SCRIPT?
HERE IT IS.
WELCOME TO THE WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 3RD REGULAR MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL SENATE MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED AND THERE SHOULD BE
COPIES ON EACH SIDE OF THE
DAIS.
>> DEPUTY MANAGER KELLY, WILL
YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
>> BUT BEFORE YOU DO THAT THERE
IS AN ECHO OF MY VOICE WHICH
WILL EVENTUALLY ANNOY ME
HERE.
>> THANK YOU
.
IT IS IT IS QUITE DEEGAN'S FROM
ITS WISHFUL LET'S GET THOSE
WEEKS THAT WE GET TO
.
I SHOULDN'T BE HERE ON OTHER I
VIEW IT RIGHT NOW YOU WANT TO
GET RID OF THE
I'LL JUST BE A
LITTLE BIT
YOU KNOW RIGHT NOW.
YEAH
.
WITH
THAT'S RIGHT.
>> YES ABSOLUTELY.
>> I'M SURE.
WELCOME AGAIN TO THE WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 3RD TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION FOR A
DETAILED MEETING INFORMATION
AND EXCUSE ME FOR A DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REFER TO THE
PRINTED AGENDA WHICH IS
AVAILABLE AT EACH END OF THE
DYAS OR ONLINE AND REGISTAR
DEPUTY MANAGER KELLY, WOULD YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE ABSOLUTELY
.
NOTING THAT COMMISSIONER ADAMS
AND APRON'S SENT ADVANCE NOTICE
THEY WOULD BE ABSENT THIS
EVENING COMMISSIONER NORTON
HERE WHETHER BE HERE MILLS'
HERE DISH HERE LEE HERE,
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE WISCH HERE
YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
>> THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
LEE SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I OPPOSE THE
MOTION CARRIES
.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE AUGUST 19TH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR THE MOTION PLEASE SAY I
LIKE ANY OPPOSE THE MOTION
CARRIES.
NEXT UP ARE THE REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATION WILL START IF
COUNCIL MEMBER DISHES READY
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER DISHES
COUNCIL REPORT IN LAST NIGHT'S
37 MINUTE COUNCIL MEETING.
THE ONLY THING THAT'S I THINK
OF INTEREST TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS A LITTLE
ANNEXATION OF A PIECE OF PARK
LAND ADJOINING FURSTENBURG PARK
.
I MEAN IT'S NOT OF CONSEQUENCE
BUT MAY BE OF INTEREST TO YOU
AND I DON'T RECALL ANY CONSENT
AGENDA ITEMS THAT WERE
PRESSING.
BUT IF IF MANAGER KELLY HAS
ANYTHING I WOULD APPRECIATE YOU
KNOW.
RIGHT.
THERE WAS JUST NOTHING.
SO THEY THE COUNCIL HAS BECOME
SLACKERS AS PLANNING COMMISSION
HAS DOUBLED DOWN AND ITS
COMMITMENT TO CITY SERVICE.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH MANAGER
KELLY, DO YOU HAVE A REPORT FOR
US THIS EVENING?
>> I DO NOT HAVE ANY REPORT
ITEMS THIS EVENING.
>> THANK YOU.
DO ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISON'S HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
>> COMMISSIONER BE?
>> I DON'T EXACTLY BUT I DID
WANT TO POINT OUT AS MEMBERS
OF THE AUDIENCE HAS HAD NOTICE
THAT THE DATELINE ON THE
PLANNING COMMISSION HERE IS
WRONG WHICH I DON'T KNOW IF
THERE'S ANY AND THAT'S ON THE
SCREEN MANAGERS SCREEN.
>> YEAH AUGUST EIGHTEEN AND
THAT MIGHT JUST GET CONFUSING
AND REPLAYS.
>> I WILL SEND A NOTE TO MR.
KOSKIE WHO'S WORKING BEHIND THE
SCENES HELPING US.
>> WE CAN SEE IF YOU CAN CHANGE
IT.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISONS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT HERE
SEEING
NONE WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET.
>> WE COME NOW TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER SIX PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ISSUES NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING OR A
DEDICATED PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE WHO
ARE PRESENT WITH US HERE IN THE
CHAMBERS.
THEN WE WILL TURN TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF ON
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE IN ZOOM FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME.
IF ON ZOOM YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS WHETHER IN PRESENT
HERE IN THE CHAMBER OR ONLINE
VIA ZOOM PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN
THE CHAMBERS WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
COME RIGHT UP.
YOU'LL HAVE THREE LIGHTS.
THE FIRST LIGHT IS GREEN.
THAT MEANS YOU'RE GOOD TO GO
YOU SECOND LIGHT IS YELLOW THAT
MEANS IT'S TIME TO WRAP IT UP
AND THE LAST LIGHT IS RED WHICH
MEANS PLEASE STOP SPEAKING.
ARE YOU PLANNING TO SPEAK
ALTOGETHER OR ONE AFTER EACH
OTHER COLLECTIVELY AS A GROUP
SO YOU ONLY WOULD GET THREE
MINUTES COLLECTIVELY YOU GO
WITH THAT.
EXCELLENT.
YOU HAVE THE FLOOR.
HI I'M GREG HOLCOMB.
WE ELEVEN TWENTY FOUR SUNSET
ALONG WITH MY FRIENDLY SUNSET
NEIGHBORS HERE TO PRESENT AND
JUST TALK ABOUT A SMALL EXCERPT
OF WHAT WAS SHARED WITH YOU
EARLIER TODAY AND I BELIEVE
SENT AND I APPRECIATE YOUR HELP
TODAY TOWARDS THE END OF THE
TRANSMITTAL I'LL JUST READ A
LITTLE LISTEN TO NEIGHBORS LAST
NIGHT IN URBAN PLANNING
COMMISSION WILL BE MEETING TO
DISCUSS ADDING A NORTH SIDE
SIDEWALK TO THE CITY'S CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
THIS IS CONTRARY TO WHAT
NEIGHBORS WERE TOLD AFTER AN
ENGAGEMENT MEETING ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE SUNSET WORLD
CORRIDOR PLANS PLANNING
COMMISSION WILL NOW PLACE THE
PARTIAL SIDEWALK ONLY PORTION
TO THAT BIGGER PLAN AND THE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN IT'S
PROPOSED WHICH INCLUDED A
SIDEWALK BETWEEN NEWPORT AND
TRUCKS WITH A SHORTER TIME
FRAME THAN IS BEING PLANNED.
LET'S DISREGARDS ALL THE
ENGAGEMENT AND FEEDBACK THAT
OVER 50 RESIDENTS HAD WITH
STAFF IN JUNE WORKING TOWARDS A
FULL SUNSET CORRIDOR.
OUR PLAN WE ENCOURAGE YOU TO
SPEAK AT THE MEETING.
THIS IS TO NEIGHBORS IF YOU
CAN.
WE UNDERSTAND THIS IS SHORT
NOTICE.
WE ONLY FIND OUT ABOUT THIS
ISSUE LITERALLY YESTERDAY THEN
FROM THE BEGINNING OF WHAT WAS
SHARED WITH YOU FROM HAITINK I
BASICALLY WROTE TO HANK SO MANY
THANKS TO FOR THIS MESSAGE AND
TO NICK HUTCHINSON FOR HIS CALL
TO ME THIS MORNING EXPLAINING
THE ORIGIN OF THIS PROPOSED
ACTION TO ADD THE SIDEWALK ONLY
CONCEPT FROM NEWPORT BROOKS
BACK INTO THIS VIP.
THIS ACTION APPEARS TO BE ONE
PERSON'S CAMPAIGN TO END THE
PROJECT BACK IN THIS NOTE IS TO
EXPLAIN TO OUR PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS THAT THE
TRUNCATED SIDEWALK CONCEPT WAS
ONCE STRONGLY OPPOSED BY SUNSET
RESIDENTS ATTENDING PLANNING
AND ENGAGEMENT MEETINGS IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE AND AGAIN IN
JUNE OF THIS YEAR TO THE PLAN
WAS NOT SUPPORTED BY CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS BRIGS AND LOUHI
IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE AND THAT
LED TO A STRONG RECOMMENDATION
BY MISS BRIGGS TO STUDY ANY
SIDEWALK CHANGES ALONG SUNSET
INTO THIS LARGER OR
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
IMPROVEMENT STUDY.
THAT STUDY IS NOW UNDERWAY BY
THE PLANNING SORRY BY THE
ENGINEERING STAFF AND ITS
CONSULTANTS BASED ON THESE
FACTS AND OTHER DETAILS
SUMMARIZED IN THE OTHER PARTS
OF WHAT WE SHARE TODAY WE
SUNSET NEIGHBORS ARE DIRECTLY
AND RESPECTFULLY REQUESTING
THAT THE SUNSET NOR SIDEWALK
PROJECT NOT BE REINSERTED INTO
THE SIPI SINCE THAT PORTION
OF THE NORTH SIDE OF SUNSET IS
FULLY INCORPORATED INTO THE
UMBRELLA OF THE CURRENT
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT
STUDY BY ADDING THE LIMITED
SIDEWALK ONLY PROJECT BACK INTO
THE CITY IT WILL CREATE
CONFUSION.
I THINK IT ALREADY HAS US AND
POTENTIAL CONFLICTS WITH THE
MISSION AND GOALS OF THE
ONGOING ENGINEERING WORK.
IN SUMMARY, THIS VIP EDITION IS
AN IS UNNECESSARY REDUNDANT AND
COULD DAMAGE THE SOLID PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT WORK THAT IS
CURRENTLY BEING CONDUCTED BY
THE ENGINEERING STAFF
CONSULTANTS.
WE ASK YOU TO CONSIDER OUR
REQUEST MUCH APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK THANKS SO MUCH
.
PUT ANYONE ELSE IN THE CHAMBER
TO ADDRESS THE CONVENTION
TONIGHT.
>> SEE NONE MANAGER KELLY DO WE
HAVE AN ONLINE PARTICIPANT AND
HAVE THEY RAISE THEIR HANDS?
WE HAVE ONE GUEST WITH THEIR
HAND RAISED MISTER JUST GIVING
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
QUESTION FOR THREE MINUTES.
>> HI ADAM.
JUST GIVE A CHEER CALLING FROM
LAS VEGAS DRIVE.
I'M GLAD TO SEE THAT THE SUNSET
SIDEWALK PROJECT IS BACK IN THE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
SIDEWALKS ARE AN ESSENTIAL AND
BASIC PART OF OUR PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE LIKE OUR
STREETS, FIRE HYDRANTS, STORM
SEWERS, BUSSES AND SO FORTH.
MANY OF US MAY TAKE THEM FOR
GRANTED ESPECIALLY THOSE OF US
WHO ALREADY HAVE SIDEWALKS IN
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE TAKE THEM FOR GRANTED RIGHT
UP TO THE POINT WHERE WE
ENCOUNTER A SIDEWALK AT A PLACE
WHERE A SIDEWALK BY ALL MEANS
SHOULD BE PRESENT.
BUT FOR SOME ACCIDENT
OF HISTORY THOSE OF US WHO ARE
ABLE LIKE MYSELF MAY DECIDE TO
ALONG DESPITE THE GAP CREATING
A GOAT PATH OR WE MAY CROSS THE
STREET WHICH MAY OR MAY NOT BE
SAFE AT THAT POINT WE MAY NEED
TO CROSS BACK TO GET TO OUR
DESTINATION OR WE MAY BE FORCED
TO SIMPLY WALK IN THE STREET
PEOPLE USING WHEELCHAIRS,
PUSHING STROLLERS, KIDS RIDING
THEIR BIKES OR THEIR BIG.
WE'LL HAVE FEWER OPTIONS AND
SOME MIGHT BE QUITE A BIT MORE
DANGEROUS.
CHILDREN AND THE ELDERLY ARE
PARTICULARLY VULNERABLE IF THEY
ARE HIT BY AN INATTENTIVE
DRIVER.
THIS IS AN ESSENTIAL CONNECTION
WELL USED BY STUDENTS WALKING
TO SCHOOL AND HAVING CONNECTED
SAFE AND ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALKS
ON BOTH SIDES IS IMPORTANT TO
ME.
AS AN ANN ARBOR RESIDENT AND
FORMER FORCE STUDENT WITH THE
SIDEWALK KNOWLEDGE A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO WELL A FEW YEARS
GO NOW VOTERS MADE IT CLEAR
THAT FILLING ALL OF OUR
SIDEWALK GAPS IS IMPORTANT TO
US AS USERS OF SIDEWALKS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
I URGE YOU TO KEEP THIS IN THE
SAFETY SHOULD BE OUR TOP
PRIORITY WHEN FILLING SIDEWALK
GAPS RATHER THAN THE OBJECTIONS
OF A FEW ADJACENT PROPERTY
OWNERS.
BUT WE HAVE SEEN WITH OTHER
SIDEWALK GET PROJECTS CITY
STAFF AS WELL ABLE TO
PRIORITIZE SAFETY WHILE STILL
SOLVING MANY OF THE SPECIFIC
OBJECTIONS OF NEIGHBORS SUCH AS
LOSS OF TREES, LOSS OF PARKING
AND SO ON.
AGAIN, THANK YOU FOR ADDING
THIS BACK TO THE CHP.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THERE.
>> YOU KNOW THEIR HANDS RAISED
AT THIS TIME.
WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC COMMENT AND MOVE US TO
AGENDA ITEM NUMBER SEVEN WHICH
IS COMMUNICATION FROM
COMMISSIONERS.
IS THERE ANY
SEEING NONE.
>> WE WILL MOVE TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING MANAGER KELLY
FOR THE TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
16TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING.
THERE ARE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY VANDERBURG TO
SECTION FIVE POINT ONE SIX
POINT THREE F MARIJUANA
FACILITIES COMMERCIAL USE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS TO REMOVE
SCHOOL SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS
REQUIRE SUBMISSION OF NEAREST
SCHOOL LOCATIONS WITH ANY
RELATED SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
PERMIT APPLICATION AND OTHER
MODIFICATIONS.
>> THANK YOU
.
WE WILL NOW GO TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER NINE UNFINISHED BUSINESS
THERE IS NONE ON TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER TEN REGULAR BUSINESS.
THIS IS THE UPDATED FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY SIX TWENTY THIRTY
ONE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN
ALSO KNOWN AS THE.
AND WE WILL START WITH A STAFF
PRESENTATION WITH MANAGER
COLEMAN.
THANK YOU CHAIR.
SO IN TERMS OF PRESENTATION YOU
RECEIVED THE UPDATE IN AUGUST
WITH THE OVERVIEW OF WHAT YOU
WHAT YOU WERE SEEING THIS YEAR
THE IP NOT A WHOLE LOT HAS
CHANGED THAT PRIMARY.
THE ONLY CHANGE IS THE PRIMARY
CHANGE IS THIS CONCEPT SIDLER
NEWPORT TOBRUK'S TO NEW BEING
ADDED BACK AND BASED ON THE
CONVERSATION AT THE AUGUST WORK
SESSION SO THAT LANGUAGE IS
PROVIDED IN YOUR MEMO THAT YOU
RECEIVED WHICH I CAN SHARE FOR
EVERYONE'S BENEFIT TO HAVE IT
ON SCREEN HERE.
ARE YOU SEEING SO THIS IS THE
LANGUAGE THAT'S PROVIDED THIS
IS STANDARD LANGUAGE THAT
YOU'VE SEEN EACH YEAR BEFORE
FOR ADOPTION TO SEE IP.
THE DIFFERENCE IS THIS WHEREAS
CAUSE ADDED TO BE CLEAR THAT AT
THE PLANNING COMMISSION'S
REQUEST SUNSET BOOKS TO NEWPORT
WAS ADDED BACK INTO THE SHIP
AND IMPACT OF THAT IS THAT THE
JONES SIDEWALK WOULD BE
DELAYED.
IT HAD BEEN PROGRAMED IN TWENTY
EIGHT TWENTY NINE AND IT WOULD
SHOW UP THEN AND IN THE BEYOND
THE SIX YEAR PLANNING WINDOW IN
ORDER TO ACCOMMODATE THE
FUNDING FOR SUNSET.
>> SO THIS THIS CHANGE IS
PURELY A PLANNING COMMISSION'S
REQUEST.
>> THIS IS NOT STAFF INITIATED
.
>> THE OTHER I THINK THING TO
NOTE WITH THAT CHANGE IT DOES
WE HEARD FROM AUDIENCE MEMBERS
THAT THERE'S SOME CONCERN ABOUT
CONFUSION THAT THIS CREATES.
WE ALREADY HAVE THIS SENSE THAT
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS
HIJACKED IN THIS SHIP SO THESE
NOW EXIST THESE BOTH EXIST
WHICH IS I THINK THE ONLY
INSTANCE I CAN THINK OF WHERE
THERE'S A DUPLICATE TWO
DIFFERENT PROJECTS TO ADDRESS
THE SAME ISSUE THAT SHOWS UP IN
THE S.O.P.
SO I CAN CERTAINLY SEE THE
POTENTIAL FOR COMMUNITY MEMBER
CONFUSION.
>> HOWEVER, I WILL ALSO SAY
THAT INCLUDING THIS IF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DOES DECIDE
TO MOVE AHEAD WITH MAINTAINING
THE SIDEWALK PORTION ALONE IN
THE SIPI, IT IS NOT GOING TO
IMPACT THE FACT THAT THE
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS
PROJECT IS ACTIVELY UNDERWAY
WITH COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND
THERE ARE MEETINGS TAKING PLACE
THOSE PRECEDE THAT PRELIMINARY
PHASE IS NOT IMPACTED BY THIS
CHANGE IN THE SIPI THE WAY THAT
SUNSET SCORES IT ENDS UP WITH
THE FUNDING SUCH THAT IT COULD
BE CONSTRUCTED IN TWENTY TWENTY
NINE SO THERE WOULD BE NO
IMMEDIATE WORK AT THIS TIME.
THERE'S FUNDING YOU SEE FROM
WHEN THIS EFFORT WAS ATTEMPTED
PREVIOUSLY THERE WOULD BE
FUNDING AS EARLY AS TWENTY
EIGHT I FLY TWENTY EIGHT TO
BEGIN SOME FURTHER DESIGN WORK
BUT NO ACTION WOULD BE TAKEN IN
THE IMMEDIATE FISCAL YEAR SO
IT'S A RELATIVE REALLY
INCONSEQUENTIAL CHANGE I GUESS
I WOULD SAY IF IF THIS APPEASES
THE COMMISSION TO SEE THERE I
GUESS YOUR TRADE OFF IS PERHAPS
SOME COMMUNITY CONFUSION.
IT DID DELAY THAT JONES PROJECT
BUT THE JONES PROJECT ALSO
WASN'T GOING TO SEE ANY ACTION
IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF YEARS
REGARDLESS OF WHERE IT STOOD.
AND WE UPDATE THIS IP EVERY
YEAR SO WE HAVE ANOTHER CHANCE
TO MODIFY AGAIN NEXT YEAR.
>> SO THAT SAID, THAT'S THE
MAJOR CHANGE.
>> I THE ONLY OTHER CHANGES
SINCE YOU SAW THIS IN AUGUST
THERE WERE A COUPLE OF OTHER
PROJECTS THAT WERE ADDED AND SO
IF YOU'RE KEEPING TRACK OF AND
IN THE MEMO THERE'S A SECTION
WHERE THERE'S A SUMMARY
OF TOTAL NUMBER OF PROJECTS IN
THE CFP.
THERE'S A COUPLE MORE JUST
THINGS THAT AND THEY'RE IN
THEIR LATER FISCAL YEARS THINGS
THAT WERE REALIZED LIKE OH
THESE SHOULD BE SHOWING UP IN
THIS SHIP AND THEY HAVEN'T BEEN
YET SO NOTHING SUBSTANTIAL
THERE BUT IT WOULD BE UP TO YOU
WHETHER YOU WANT TO KEEP THIS
WHEREAS KLAUS HAS A COMMISSION
TO DECIDE WHETHER YOU KEEP THIS
WHEREAS CLAUSE ABOUT ADDING THE
SUNSET SIDEWALK OR I HAVE
DRAFTED SOME ALTERNATE LANGUAGE
THAT YOU MIGHT USE.
LET ME SWITCH I JUST THREW IT
INTO A QUICK DOCUMENT HERE FOR
FOR YOU TO TAKE A LOOK AT IN
THE EVENT THAT YOU DID NOT WANT
TO BRING THAT SIDEWALK ONLY
PROJECT BACK IN, YOU COULD SAY
YOU HAVE DISCUSSED THE PROJECT
AND THE SUNSET SIDEWALK
PROJECTS.
>> THERE ARE THE TWO AND
DETERMINED THAT THIS SIPI SHALL
BE RESTORED TO REMOVE THE BOOKS
TO NEWPORT SIDEWALK AND RETURN
JONES TO ITS PRIOR PLACEMENT
WHICH WAS FFI 28 29.
>> SO I AM HAPPY TO TAKE
QUESTIONS OR IF THERE'S
ANYTHING THAT YOU WANT TO LOOK
AT IN CLOSER DETAIL I CAN PULL
UP OTHER OTHER MATERIALS THAT
WERE INCLUDED IN THE AGENDA
PACKET.
>> I WILL TAKE YOUR LEAD ON
THIS.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE CHANCE TO
SPEAK.
THANK YOU.
I'M GOING TO START WITH THE
MOTION AND THEN YOU WILL HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO ASK A
QUESTION SO I'M GOING TO READ
THE MOTION.
THE MOTION PROPOSED BY STAFF IS
WHEREAS SECTION ONE COLIN ONE
EIGHT FIVE OF THE ANN ARBOR
CITY CODE REQUIRES THAT THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
ANNUALLY PREPARE A CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS PLAN C IP
IDENTIFYING PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
THAT WILL BE NEEDED WITHIN THE
ENSUING SIX YEARS IN THE
GENERAL ORDER OF PRIORITY
WHEREAS THE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY SIX THROUGH TWENTY
THIRTY ONE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
PLAN KIIP WAS APPROVED BY THE
ANN ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION
ON JANUARY 7TH TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE WHEREAS THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVED THE FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SIX CAPITAL
BUDGET ON MAY 19 TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE WHICH USED THE FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY SIX TO TWENTY
THIRTY ONE CAPITAL PLAN AS
SPACES WHEREAS THE SECOND YEAR
OF THE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY SIX TO TWENTY THIRTY ONE
ZIP HAS BEEN ADJUSTED BASED ON
CURRENT CONDITIONS AS RELATED
TO THE ADJUSTED FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN CAPITAL
BUDGET TO BE CONSIDERED BY THE
CITY COUNCIL WHEREAS SUNSET
BROOKS TO NEWPORT SIDEWALKS TR
DASH EIGHT DASH ONE EIGHT DASH
ONE THREE WAS ADDED TO THE VIP
AT PLANNING COMMISSIONS
REQUESTS WHICH SCORED AT A
COMBINED SCORE RANKING
OF TWENTY ONE OUT OF FORTY FOUR
RESULTING IN PROGRAM FOR
ANTICIPATED CONSTRUCTION AND
TWENTY TWENTY NINE AND
RESULTING IN JONES PLYMOUTH TO
BROADWAY SIDEWALK TR DASH EIGHT
DASH ONE EIGHT DASH ZERO SIX
BEING DELAYED BEYOND THE SIX
YEAR CAPITAL PLANNING PERIOD
AND IT'S THERE'S AND THERE'S A
DANGLING AND AND THEN IT SAYS
RESOLVED ARE WE GOOD GAVELING
OK AND RESOLVED THANK YOU TO
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY APPROVES THE UPDATED
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SIX
TWENTY THIRTY ONE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS PLAN AS A
SUPPORTING DOCUMENT FOR THE
CITY'S COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
RESOLVED THAT THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN
CAPITAL BUDGET USING THE
UPDATED FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY SIX TO TWENTY THIRTY ONE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN AS
ITS BASIS MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
LEE SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
>> WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER DISH I'M SORRY FOR
JUMPING THE GUN THERE SO I WAS
JUST LOOKING FOR MY NOTES ON
THE MEETING THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS AND I HAD WITH
TRANSPORTATION STAFF AND I
CANNOT FIND HIM.
SO I WONDERED IF IF MISS
COLEMAN YOU REMEMBER MY MEMORY
WAS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
WAS CONCERNED THAT IT WAS NOT
HER EXPECTATION THAT THE SUNSET
PROJECT WOULD BE COMPLETELY
TAKEN OFF THE CHP AND I THINK
AT WHAT I REMEMBER I WAS
TALKING ABOUT IT THAT MEETING
WAS THAT STAFF WOULD RE
EVALUATE THE PROJECT AND
CONSIDER WHETHER SOME DESIGN
WORK COULD BE PROGRAMED IN
WHICH IT LOOKS LIKE THAT IS IN
BECAUSE IT LOOKS LIKE THERE'S
SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
THAT'S PRIOR YEAR SORRY THAT
THAT'S PROBABLY THE TWENTY
TWENTY EIGHT SIXTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS RIGHT IT IS SHOWING UP
IN THE SUNSET TRANSPORTATION
IMPROVEMENTS TRAIN TWENTY FOUR
DASH TEN YOU SEE THIRTY
THOUSAND IN PRIOR YEARS WHICH
IS F.I. TWENTY FIVE IN THIS
CASE AND THIRTY THOUSAND AND
FOR TWENTY SIX AND THAT WAS
ADDED AS AN OUTCOME FROM THE
DISCUSSION WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS AND DESH THIS PAST
JANUARY THAT WE DETERMINED WE
COULD DO SOME PRELIMINARY
ENGAGEMENT AND ENGINEERING
DESIGN WORK TO DETERMINE WHAT
THE ALTERNATIVES REALLY ARE
AVAILABLE FOR THE QUARTER AND
THAT'S THE ENGAGEMENT THAT THE
PRESIDENT SPOKE OF THAT THEY'VE
BEEN PARTICIPATING IN.
>> OK, SO IS THE STAGE OF THAT
ENGAGEMENT OF HAVE THEY SEEN
ANY DESIGNS YET THAT I KNOW
THAT THE ENGAGEMENT IS UNDERWAY
AND THE PRELIMINARY DESIGN
IS
ACTIVE?
I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHERE IT
STANDS IN TERMS OF WE HAD I
GUESS PART OF THE I SHOULD
CLARIFY PART OF THE DISCUSSION
THAT WE HAD IN AUGUST AS WELL
WAS THAT THE MEMO STAFF
PROVIDED IN FEBRUARY STATED
THAT WE EXPECTED TO COMPLETE
THAT ENGAGEMENT AND IT WOULD
INFORM THE FALL TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE SIPI PROCESS BECAUSE WE
ARE DOING THIS VIP EARLIER THIS
YEAR FOR STAFF SCHEDULING
REASONS WE ARE NOT IN A
POSITION TO HAVE THE RESULTS
OF THAT ENGAGEMENT WORK TO
INCORPORATE INTO THIS VIP THIS
YEAR.
>> SO THAT WAS WHY THE
CONSTRUCTION PHASE OF THIS
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS THE
TWO TWO POINT THREE DOLLARS
MILLION WAS STAYING AS IT IS
AND THAT BEYOND YEARS IN
ANTICIPATION WE WOULD LEARN
MORE THROUGH THIS ACTIVE
ENGAGEMENT PRELIMINARY PHASE
AND BE ABLE TO BETTER INFORM
THE FALL OF TWENTY SIX VIP.
>> OK THAT'S GREAT.
SO I MEAN I THINK I'M HEARING
FROM YOU AND I THINK FROM YOUR
INTRODUCTION AND YOUR COMMENTS
ON THIS THIS IS BACK ON THE
SIPI BUT BUT ACTION IS GOING TO
BE IN THE FUTURE AND THERE IS
STILL SOME DESIGN WORK AND SOME
WEIGHING OF ALTERNATIVES
BECAUSE IF THERE'S TO BE IF
MOVING A CURVE IS INVOLVED
WHICH WAS ONE THING THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT AND IF THAT
AFFECTS THE SIDEWALK PROJECT,
IT WOULD SEEM THAT THE SIDEWALK
PROJECT WOULD GET MORE CLOSELY
ALIGNED WITH THE TRANSPORTATION
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
>> BUT THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
DON'T KNOW YET.
RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
AND JUST FOR THOSE OF YOU THAT
ARE IN THE PUBLIC, THE TIME
THAT WE'RE HAVING NOW IS THE
DISCUSSION OF THE COMMISSION
AND SO WE UNLESS WELL, THERE'S
ACTUALLY NO WAY FOR US TO HEAR
FROM YOU AGAIN.
>> SO I JUST WANT TO LET YOU
KNOW THAT SO I ACKNOWLEDGE YOUR
HAND BUT WE ARE NOW IN OUR
DISCUSSION TO DECIDE WHAT TO
DO.
>> OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER, THIS IS JUST A
SCRIBNER'S CORRECTION ON THE
ACTUAL MOTION ITSELF.
THE THIRD WHEREAS HAS
APOSTROPHE IT'S BASIS AND IT
SHOULD BE A POSSESSIVE IT'S
PLEASE REMOVE THE APOSTROPHE
SORRY JUST TOTAL IT'S
SCRIBNER'S ERROR BUT STILL WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT'S
ACCURATE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER LEE.
>> I MEAN IF YOU DON'T WANT TO
YOU DON'T HAVE TO TIMES
COMMISSIONER NORTEN I'M STILL
CONFUSED BY THE CENTER AND YOU
SAID NO STREET IMPROVEMENT
PROJECTS NORMALLY DON'T INCLUDE
SIDEWALKS OR THEY DO AND THIS
SOMEHOW GOT SEPARATED AND WELL
I'M STILL CONFUSED ABOUT WHAT'S
GOING ON.
>> SURE.
JUST YOU MAY THANK YOU FOR
ASKING THIS PROJECT WAS
PURSUING AS A SIDEWALK PROJECT
I BELIEVE IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE
SOMEWHERE THEREABOUTS COULD BE
TWENTY TWO AND HAD IT MOVED
AHEAD WE WOULD HAVE FILLED THE
SIDEWALK GAP THE WAY SIDEWALK
GAP PROJECTS HAPPENED
THROUGHOUT THE CITY WHICH IS
SPECIFICALLY FOCUSING ON THE
SIDEWALK AT THAT TIME THE THERE
WAS COMMUNITY PUSH BACK.
THERE HAD BEEN CONVERSATIONS
WITH COUNCIL MEMBERS STAFF AND
THE OUTCOME WAS THAT THE
SIDEWALK GAP DID NOT MOVE
FORWARD AND WAS ELIMINATED FROM
THE SIPI LIKE AS A SIDEWALK
ONLY PROJECT AND IN ITS PLACE I
THINK THE VERY NEXT ZIP CYCLE
FOLLOWING THAT ENGAGEMENT A
PROJECT WAS ADDED CALLED SUNSET
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS.
WE DON'T TYPICALLY HAVE
PROJECTS CALLED LIKE SUNSET
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS IS
SORT OF THE FIRST OF ITS KIND.
THERE WASN'T A WHOLE LOT
OF PRECEDENT FOR THIS BUT THE
IDEA WAS THAT WE LOOK MORE
HOLISTICALLY AT TRANSPORTATION
ALONG THE CORRIDOR TO SEE IF
THERE ARE OTHER CREATIVE
SOLUTIONS THAT THERE IS A
RECOGNIZED NEED TO FILL A
SIDEWALK GAP.
THERE IS I THINK A WIDE ENOUGH
CROSS SECTION OF THE STREET
THAT ENTERED SOME DISCUSSION
ABOUT WHETHER CURBS COULD BE
MOVED TO BRING THE SIDEWALK
FURTHER INTO WHAT IS NOW
VEHICLE TRAVEL LANE AND THAT
WAY THE IMPACTS TO VEGETATION
COULD BE MINIMIZED AND OTHER
COMMUNITY IMPACTS WE COULD
HOPEFULLY FIND A SOLUTION THAT
WOULD BETTER MEET EVERYONE'S
INTEREST NEEDS.
>> BUT IN ORDER TO DO THAT IT
WAS GOING TO REQUIRE A MUCH
HIGHER PRICE TAG THAN WHAT A
TRADITIONAL SIDEWALK GAP
FILLING PROJECT WOULD INCLUDE
IN THAT THIS TWO POINT
SOMETHING MILLION.
>> SO IT GOT PROGRAMED IN THE
SIPI BUT WHERE IT SCORED AND
WITH ITS DOLLAR VALUE AND THE
FACT THAT THE SIDEWALK MILEAGE
DOESN'T HAVE THAT MUCH MONEY TO
SUPPORT THAT IT WAS ENDING UP
IN THESE VERY LATE YEARS OR
EVEN OUTSIDE OF THE SIX YEAR
PLANNING WINDOW.
>> SO THAT WAS WHERE THIS CAME
UP AT PLANNING COMMISSION THIS
PAST JANUARY WAS THE DISCUSSION
OF WANTING TO SEE COMMISSIONER
ADAMS PACIFICALLY HAD REQUESTED
THAT WE SEE THE ORIGINAL
SIDEWALK ONLY PROJECT RESTORED
IF THIS TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
IS COMPREHENSIVE ENOUGH THAT
IT'S SOMEWHAT UNATTAINABLE WITH
ITS PRICE TAG WE OUGHT TO
RETURN TO THE SIDEWALK PROJECT
ALONE WAS THAT WAS THE
DIRECTION I HEARD OR THE
CONVERSATION I HEARD AFTER THAT
WE'VE AS WE COUNCIL MEMBER
DESCH AND I WERE JUST
DISCUSSING THERE WAS A MEETING
WITH STAFF AND A COUPLE
OF COUNCIL MEMBERS TO SEE WHAT
CAN WE DO, HOW CAN WE TRY TO
MOVE THIS FORWARD AND THAT HAS
LED TO THIS PRELIMINARY
ENGAGEMENT PHASE THAT WE'RE
DOING NOW.
ONE OF THE KEY POINTS THAT
COMMISSIONER ADAMS HAD MADE IN
JANUARY WAS WOULDN'T IT BE A
SHAME IF WE WAIT UNTIL WE SIX
YEARS FROM NOW HAVE TWO POINT
THREE MILLION DOLLARS TO TRY TO
BUILD THE SIDEWALK AND MOVE THE
CARBINES?
AND I FIND OUT THAT'S NOT
FEASIBLE THAT THERE'S AN OTHER
ENGINEERING CONSTRAINTS.
SOME OF THE CONSIDERING OPTIONS
IN THAT AREA ARE THE FACT THAT
THERE'S A LOT OF UTILITIES IN
THE STREET BECAUSE THE DIRECT
ROUTE TO THE WATER TREATMENT
PLANT SO THERE'S IS A
COMPLICATED CROSS SECTION TO
WORK THROUGH BUT THE SOLUTION
OF DOING THIS PRELIMINARY PHASE
WOULD ALLOW US TO LEARN A LOT
MORE AND SEE WHAT IS FEASIBLE.
>> SO I KNOW THIS VERY LONG
WINDED I'M SORRY BUT DON'T TAKE
YOUR TIME HELPS THE FACT THAT
YOUR QUESTION ORIGINALLY WHAT A
TRANSPORTATION PROJECT NOT
INCLUDE SIDEWALKS.
>> THIS IS SORT OF ITS OWN
BEAST.
IT'S NOT THAT WE WERE THERE TO
DO IT.
WE ARE COMING TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD TO DO LIKE A
STREET IMPROVEMENT RESURFACING
TYPE PROJECT WHERE WE MIGHT
LOOK CURB TO CURB AND THINK
ABOUT OTHER IMPACTS.
>> WE WERE ONLY THERE
ORIGINALLY TO BUILD A SIDEWALK
.
>> SO ADDING THIS BACK IN NOW
AT THIS POINT REALLY IS ADDING
BACK IN A PRELIMINARY STUDY TO
SEE IF IT'S FEASIBLE TO DO THE
PRELIMINARIES THAT ADDING THE
WHOLE THING AND IT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN.
>> WELL, THE PRELIMINARY STUDY
IS ALREADY PROGRAMED SO THAT WE
ADDED IN LET ME SHARE MY SCREEN
AGAIN TO SHOW THE DIFFERENCE TO
SO WE WE DID MAKE THE CHANGE
FOLLOWING THE DISCUSSION WITH
COUNCIL MEMBERS IN JANUARY THAT
WE ARE WHAT WE'RE PRESENTING IN
MISSISSIPPI IS THIS TOTAL
OF SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
THAT'S COVERING PRELIM INARI
ENGAGEMENT AND ALTERNATIVE'S
ANALYSIS FOR THE BROADER
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT.
>> SORRY NOT TO GO FOR THIS
BROADER TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
THAT HAS THAT SIXTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS WE ARE WE ARE PROPOSING
THAT BE PART OF IT.
>> WE ARE ACTUALLY ALREADY
UNDERWAY.
>> WE ARE ALREADY UNDERWAY WITH
THAT WORK SO I SUPPOSE WHETHER
OR NOT I DON'T KNOW IF YOUR
ACTION IN THE SIPI WOULD CHANGE
THAT I THINK THERE IS A
SEPARATE CONTRACT THAT COUNCIL
HAS APPROVED FOR THAT WORK TO
MOVE FORWARD.
WHAT IS ON THE TABLE TONIGHT IS
WHETHER OR NOT THIS SIDEWALK
ONLY PROJECT SHOULD BE SHOWING
UP HERE SEPARATE FROM THE
BROADER TRANSPORTATION AND
THAT'S WHAT I WAS SAYING.
>> IT'S IT'S IT IS A IT'S
UNIQUE.
I HAVEN'T SEEN AN INSTANCE
WHERE WE HAVE TO PROJECTS THAT
ADDRESS THE SAME ISSUE OR SAME
GEOGRAPHIC AREA IN TWO
DIFFERENT WAYS BOTH SHOWING UP
IN THE SIPI LIKE THIS.
>> SO IT HAS THE POTENTIAL TO
CREATE SOME COMMUNITY
CONFUSION.
BUT AGAIN I WOULD SAY IT IS
ALSO FAIRLY INCONSEQUENTIAL
BECAUSE THE DOLLARS THE SIXTY
FIVE IS SPENT THAT THAT IS THE
MONEY THAT WAS SPENT AND TWENTY
ONE OR TWENTY TWO OR WHENEVER
WE ATTEMPTED THIS PROJECT
PREVIOUSLY WHAT WOULD BE SPENT
IN THE FUTURE ARE THESE DOLLARS
HERE SHOWING UP IN TWENTY EIGHT
TWENTY NINETEEN THIRTY AND
BECAUSE COUNCIL ONLY APPROVES
THE BUDGET ONE YEAR AT A TIME
THE ONLY BUDGET THAT'S GOING TO
GET APPROVED NEXT SPRING IS THE
AFTER TWENTY SEVEN BUDGET.
SO ADDING THIS RIGHT NOW WON'T
CHANGE STAFFS IMMEDIATE ACTIONS
OR OR THE DOLLARS THAT GET
BUDGETED OR SPENT IT WOULD SHOW
IT HERE IF THAT MAKES PLANNING
COMMISSION MORE COMFORTABLE
THAT YOU SEE THAT SIDEWALK
ALONE SHOWING UP YOU COULD KEEP
IT IF YOU IF AGAIN THE TRADE
OFF IF YOU FEEL THAT THE
COMMUNITY CONFUSE HAVING IT
INCLUDED IS A GREATER RISK AND
YOU'D LIKE TO REVERT BACK TO
JUST HAVING THE SUNSET
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS,
THAT'S FINE TOO.
>> WHAT WOULD THE SIXTY
THOUSAND IN TWENTY TWENTY EIGHT
BE SPENT ON?
PREVIOUSLY THERE WAS A PROJECT
THERE IS A PROJECT SELL THE
JONES SIDEWALK PROJECT THAT WE
HAD TO DELAY IN ORDER TO
ACCOMMODATE.
SO THIS PROJECT USED TO SHOW
DOLLARS IN TWENTY EIGHT AND
TWENTY NINE AND NOW THEY'RE ALL
SHOWING IN THE BEYOND THE SIX
YEAR PLANNING I'M SORRY BUT
BACK ON THE SUNSET SIDEWALK GO
LINE ITEM THERE'S 60000
SCHEDULED TO BE SPENT AND 2028
THAT OH IF THAT THAT IS FOR
DESIGN WORK IF IF THIS DOES
MOVE FORWARD IN TWENTY EIGHT
AND BY THE TIME THAT HAPPENS
THIS PRELIMINARY WORK ON THE
TRANSPORTATION PROJECT WILL BE
FINISHED AND WE'D HAVE A BETTER
SENSE OF IF THEY'RE IN CONFLICT
OR COULD BE MADE COMPATIBLE
RIGHT YEAH WE WE HOPE TO LEARN
A LOT WHEN THAT ENGAGEMENT AND
THOSE ALTERNATIVE ANALYSIS
ADDING THIS BACK IN AT THIS
POINT IS JUST SIGNALING IT'S ON
THE TABLE TO BE CONSIDERED
EFFECTIVELY.
>> IT'S NOT COMMITTING TO IT.
IT'S NOT COMMITTING ANYTHING.
IT IS I US POTENTIALLY
RESERVING LIKE RESERVING
FUNDING AS MUCH AS A PLAN
RESERVE FUND RESERVING THAT AS
A PLACEHOLDER THAT IF IF THE
ALTERNATIVE THAT'S BEST SUITED
IS TO BUILD A SIDEWALK ONLY AND
NOT DO A BROADER TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT, WE THEN HAVE IT KIND
OF NEXT IN QUEUE TO BE READY TO
BUDGET FOR GREAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER MILLS.
SO YOU PROBABLY GOING BACK TO
SHARE A SCREEN SHARING WILL BE
HELPFUL ON THAT.
>> I SIMILARLY HAVE REALLY
MIXED FEELINGS ABOUT THIS TO BE
REAL HONEST IN PART BECAUSE
THERE'S ALREADY BEEN A LOT
OF MONEY SPENT ON TALKING ABOUT
THE SIDEWALK AND SO I DON'T
KNOW I'M I'M HOPING THAT
ULTIMATELY WHAT I'M HEARING IS
THAT BUILDING A SIDEWALK IS
ALSO PART OF CAN YOU GO BACK TO
THE SUNSET WHAT YOU ARE SHOWING
SORRY.
I'M LOOKING AT MY SCREEN
BUILDING THE SIDEWALK IS PART
OF THE TWO POINT THREE MILLION
THAT IS PUSHED IN BEYOND YEARS
AND WE ALSO HAVE SIX POINT SIX
SIX MILLION RIGHT.
SIX HUNDRED SIXTY THOUSAND
LEFT.
SO LIKE MAYBE THERE'S A LITTLE
BIT OF SAVINGS BUT I JUST WANT
TO ACKNOWLEDGE LIKE THERE'S
THERE'S A LOT OF MONEY STILL TO
TO THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF GOING
INTO ENGAGEMENT AND THERE'S
STILL MONEY TO BE SPENT TO
BUILD THIS.
SO AND I DON'T KNOW BECAUSE
OF THE WAY THAT THIS WAS ADDED
IN THAT THOSE THINGS HAVE BEEN
RECTIFIED.
IS THAT IS THAT FAIR LIKE WE IT
PROBABLY WON'T BE TWO POINT
THREE PLUS SEVEN HUNDRED
THOUSAND TWO POINT THREE
MILLION PLUS SEVEN HUNDRED
THOUSAND BECAUSE IT IS THE SAME
PROJECT.
RIGHT.
SO LIKE YOU WOULD SUBTRACT ONE
OUT.
>> CORRECT.
OK, YEAH.
YOU WOULDN'T YOU WOULD NOT ADD
EXACTLY YEAH.
>> SO YOU WOULD FOREGO ONE IF
YOU DO THE OTHER SO LIKE I
REALLY DON'T KNOW ABOUT
PERSONALLY HOW I FEEL ABOUT THE
ADDITION OF THE SUNSET
SIDEWALKS BUT THE BIGGER
QUESTION I HAVE IS THAT THIS
RANKS TWENTY ONE AND WE BUMPED
SOMETHING THAT RANKS AHEAD
OF IT AND LIKE BIGGER AND SO
THIS IS IF YOU GO TO JONES MY
BIGGER QUESTION IS WHY DIDN'T
WE BUMP JEWITT INSTEAD?
>> SO THERE'S REASON EXACTLY
WHICH I KNOW THAT IS BECAUSE
LIKE I I WAS THINKING IS THERE
OTHER ROAD OR WATERWORK OR
OTHER PARTS OF THE CITY?
DO WE TRY TO SPREAD OUT
INVESTMENT?
>> SO YEAH.
SO PART OF THE THE RATIONALE
WHEN I SHARED BEFORE THE
PRIORITIZATION CRITERIA AND HOW
PROJECTS GET PROGRAMED THE RANK
ORDER HELPS INFORM PROGRAMING
IT IS NOT THE END ALL BE ALL
AND LOOKING AT WE LOOKED AT
EACH OF THESE PROJECTS THERE
ARE SOMETIMES PROJECTS THAT ARE
ALREADY HAVE FEDERAL FUNDING
COMMITTED TO THEM OR A FEDERAL
FUNDING APPLICATION HAS BEEN
APPLIED FOR THAT WE WOULD NOT
WANT TO JEOPARDIZE.
>> THERE ARE SOMETIMES PROJECTS
THAT ARE IN COORDINATION WITH
OTHER ONES LIKE WE'RE GOING TO
BE IN THE AREA DOING A ROAD OR
A UTILITY SO THERE'S A COST
SAVINGS TO DO A SIDEWALK AT THE
SAME TIME BECAUSE WE'VE ALREADY
MOBILIZED CONTRACTORS THERE.
THERE IS ALSO A SEPARATE
PRIORITIZATION THAT IS
SPECIFICALLY FOR SIDEWALK APPS
THAT HAPPENS BEFORE PROJECTS
MAKE IT INTO THE SIPI AND AND I
KNOW THAT THAT'S A LITTLE
CONFUSING AND IT'S BEEN BROUGHT
UP BEFORE LIKE WHY IS THERE A
SIDEWALK PRIORITIZATION SYSTEM
OUTSIDE OF THE ACTIVE
TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIZATION
SYSTEM?
AND THAT'S A TOPIC WE HOPE TO
LOOK AT WITH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IN THE FUTURE.
I MENTIONED IN AUGUST THAT
STAFF ARE GOING TO LOOK AT KIND
OF OVERHAULING THOSE SIDEWALK
PRIORITIZATION CRITERIA BUT
CURRENTLY IN THE SIDEWALK
PRIORITIZATION SYSTEM, JONES
RANKS BELOW THE SUNSET NEWPORT
TOBRUK'S IN THE SIDEWALK GAP
SCORING NOT IN THE ACTIVE
TRANSPORT AND SIPI SCORING.
>> SO IT'S LIKE THEY'RE VERY
CLOSE.
>> IT'S HARD TO SAY LIKE THESE
ARE MINOR DIFFERENCES AND WHICH
ONE IT'S NOT FAIR TO SAY THAT
OR EVEN MAYBE EVEN DO IT BUT
LIKE WHEN YOU'RE LOOKING AT ONE
OR TWO RANK ORDER DIFFERENCES
WE ALSO SCORE ON A SLIDING
SCALE.
THERE'S A SLIDER BAR AND WE
DROP THE SIDEBAR AND IT'S NOT
MEANT TO BE OVERLY SCIENTIFIC.
IT IS MEANT TO BE A
GENERALIZATION.
>> AND SO IT'S SORT OF UNFAIR
TO LIKE PICK JUST BASED ON ONE
RANK ORDER LEVEL TO PICK ON
THAT AS A GOOD AGAIN AND I'LL
BE ALL SORT OF DECISION MAKING
CRITERIA.
>> IT IS A GUIDE FOR US TO THEN
LOOK AT WHAT MAKES SENSE WITH
ALL OF THE OTHER FACTORS WE'RE
CONSIDERING WITH FUNDING
AVAILABILITY AND PROJECT
COORDINATION AND THE SIDEWALK
GAP SCORING AND THE ACTIVE
TRANSPORTATION AND SCORING AND
TRYING TO FIND A BEST FIT
PLANE.
>> SO IT IS SO SO WHERE I WAS
GOING WITH THIS WAS LIKE IT
FEELS WEIRD IF THIS IS BEING
THE HEAD BECAUSE AT LEAST WAS
BEFORE US.
JONES IS TWENTY SUNSET IS
TWENTY ONE I THINK I'M I DON'T
KNOW WHICH OF THE COLUMNS
OF SPORTS WE READ ON THE
COMBINED RANK.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> SO JONES IS TWENTY SUNSET IS
TUNIE ONE OR TWENTY TO TWENTY
TWO NOW TO TWENTY ONE AND
JEWITT IS TWENTY THREE AND SO
THAT'S WHERE I WAS LIKE HOW ARE
BOTH OF THESE AHEAD OF TWENTY
THREE.
>> BUT WHAT YOU'RE TELLING ME
IS THAT THAT IS NOT I MEAN YES
I KNOW THAT SCHEDULING WITH
OTHER THINGS IN THE VIP COMES
INTO PLAY BUT EVEN WITHIN THE
SIDEWALK SPACE JUST REITERATING
WHAT YOU JUST SAID THERE'S THIS
IS NOT THE ONLY SCORING WITHIN
SIDEWALK GAP FILLING SIDEWALK
PROJECTS, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
OK, THE OTHER NOTE ON JONES
JUST AS I'VE GOT IT NOW PULLED
UP IN OUR EVENTS AND OUR
SOFTWARE TO SEE MORE DETAIL
THAT THIS IS ONE THAT STAFF
ALREADY SEES IT COULD BE
PROBLEM STICK AND MAY HAVE HAD
TO BE DELAYED AND ANYWAYS
ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTABILITY
PERSPECTIVE.
SO IT WAS A GOOD CANDIDATE TO
DELAY BECAUSE IT WAS LIKELY
GOING TO NEED MORE TIME, MORE
TIME REGARDLESS.
SO THE IMPACT YES.
YOU LIKE ADDING SUNSET NEW
BROOKS DELAYS JONES BUT JONES
IS LIKELY GOING TO MOVE IN THE
NEXT CYCLE ANYWAY.
SO IT WASN'T LIKE REALLY
JUMPING HAD JUMPING OVER A
PROJECT THAT WAS REALLY
TANGIBLE.
IT'S IT'S A PLAN WE PUT STUFF
IN.
WE MOVE IT WHEN WE FIND OUT
IT'S NOT GOING TO WORK AND
JONES IS A GOOD CANDIDATE LIKE
A GOOD EXAMPLE OF THAT.
>> THANK YOU FOR LIKE FIRST
OF ALL THAT WE HAVE THOSE KIND
OF NOTES AND DETAILS AND FOR
EXPLAINING THAT AND NOW IN MY
MIND HONESTLY THIS MAKES IT
EVEN HARDER BECAUSE I WAS
THINKING LIKE IT DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE TO JUMP AHEAD.
>> RIGHT.
LIKE BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE IT'S
NOT SO I DON'T KNOW GUYS ABOUT
WHAT ABOUT WHETHER LIKE KEEPING
IT IN HERE JUST BASED ON THOSE
NUMBERS FELT LIKE IT WAS
JUMPING AHEAD OF JONES.
>> BUT WHAT I WHAT WE JUST
HEARD IS LIKE JONES IS NOT
REALLY THERE.
>> OK, I DON'T KNOW WOULD YOU
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO REMOVE
IT?
>> I KNOW I'M SERIOUSLY
CONFLICTED SO I DON'T I DON'T
KNOW BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW HOW I
WOULD VOTE ON THAT MOTION TO BE
REAL HONEST THAT'S I THINK
THAT'S OUR OUR OPTION COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH.
I JUST WANT TO VERY QUICKLY
OFFER A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
CONSIDERATION WHICH ON THIS
CHART IS THE SUNSET
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS
PROJECT AND REALLY COMMISSIONER
NORTON HAS ALREADY ALLUDED TO
THIS AND THE 30000 DOLLARS THAT
IS PROGRAM FOR TWENTY TWENTY
SIX FOR THAT AND I'M SORRY I'M
NOT SICK.
IT'S RAGWEED SEASON.
I DID TAKE A COVID TEST JUST IN
CASE SO THAT 30000 DOLLARS IS
GOING TO HELP US MAKE A BETTER
JUDGMENT ABOUT WHETHER THEY'RE
REALLY IS A POSSIBILITY
OF MOVING CURBS WHICH WOULD
AFFECT THE SIDEWALK PROJECT
SIDEWALK ONLY PROJECT AND IF
THERE ISN'T REALLY A
POSSIBILITY OF MOVING CURBS IT
MAY NOT BE NECESSARY TO WAIT
TILL WE SCRATCH UP THE CASH FOR
THE HUGELY ENVISIONED PROJECT
AND IN THAT CASE SUNSET WAS ON
THE TABLE IN 2021 AND FOR IT TO
COME BACK IT'S NOT NECESSARILY
UNREASONABLE.
SO FOR ME THE CONSIDERATION IS
THAT MONEY YOU KNOW, BECAUSE I
THINK WE WILL GET MORE
INFORMATION AND THAT WAS MY
UNDERSTANDING FROM THAT MEETING
WHICH IS VAGUE IN MY HEAD.
>> BUT YOU REMINDED ME I REALLY
THOUGHT THAT THE SENSE WAS WE
WERE GOING TO PUT THINGS BACK
ON SO THAT WE DIDN'T FEEL LIKE
THEY WERE LOST FOREVER AND WE
WOULD DO SOME WORK SO THAT WE
COULD NO MORE ABOUT WHAT
OPTIONS ARE REALLY FEASIBLE.
>> COMMISSIONER OTHER YEAH I
THINK FOR ME JUST KIND
OF ADDING TO THAT IS IT SOUNDS
LIKE THESE TWO PROJECTS ARE NOT
IN OPPOSITION TO EACH OTHER.
>> IT'S NOT LIKE WE APPROVE ONE
OR THE OTHER.
IT'S KIND OF LIKE IF IF WE
LEAVE IT AS IS
IT WILL GET US A
STEP FURTHER AND WE CAN MAKE
MORE DECISIONS BUT IT'S NOT
SETTING ANYTHING ELSE BACK AND
IN THAT AREA AND IT SO TO YOUR
POINT IS THAT IT'S NOT A GIANT
CHANGE ACTUALLY LIKE IT FEELS
LIKE OH WE'RE PUTTING THIS IN
AND TAKING THIS OTHER ONE OUT
BUT THAT'S NOT LIKE THE REALITY
OF OF THIS IS IT'S JUST KIND
OF CONTINUING THE PROCESS FOR
EITHER PROJECT AND THE JONES
DRIVE WAS MAYBE NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN ANYWAY.
>> SO IT SEEMS SOMEWHAT EASIER
TO ME TO TO SUPPORT IT BECAUSE
I DON'T SEE WHY THERE'S THERE'S
A DOWNSIDE IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE
RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE FOR MY PART I JUST
WANTED TO NOTE WE'RE PUTTING
BACK SO I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S
JUMPING AHEAD BECAUSE IT WAS
ALREADY IN AND THEN IT WAS
REMOVED AND NOW WE'RE PUTTING
IT BACK.
SO THAT WAS A CLARIFICATION FOR
FOR ME THAT WAS HELPFUL.
>> THE OTHER THING IS AN
MANAGER COLEMAN WE DISCUSSED
THIS AT OUR WORK SESSION AT
AUGUST 12TH BECAUSE YOU
PREPARED A MEMO FOR US AND IN
THAT MEMO YOU HAD THIS AS A
BULLETIN SEPARATE ACTION AND
YOU GOT FEEDBACK FROM US AT
THAT MEETING TO BRING THIS
FORWARD IT TO US, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
SO IS THAT STILL THE CASE OR
WOULD SOMEONE LIKE TO PROPOSE
STRIKING IT?
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE WE GAVE MR.
COLEMAN INFORMATION AT OUR WORK
SESSION AND THEN SHE TOOK THAT
INFORMATION AND THEN SHE
PREPARED THIS FOR US AND NOW
IT'S HERE.
>> BUT NOW IT SEEMS LIKE SO
JUST TRYING TO MAKE SURE I'M
READING THE ROOM CORRECTLY.
>> OK, GOOD COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YEAH.
AND MY RECOLLECTION OF THE WORK
SESSION WAS WAS TO FIGURE OUT
WHERE IT WOULD RANK LIKE I
DON'T KNOWND SO THAT'S WHY I
WANTED TO ASK SPECIFICALLY
ABOUT THE RANKINGS.
I THINK THAT YOU'RE I MEAN
YOU'RE RIGHT CERTAINLY IN TERMS
OF THE LANGUAGE BUT A PROJECT
THAT MAY HAVE GOTTEN TAKEN OFF
EARLIER LIKE IF IT'S IF IT'S
VERY LOW PRIORITY, THAT'S WHY I
THINK THAT THE RANKING WAS
IMPORTANT AND SO WE DID IN MY
MIND HAVE NEW INFORMATION
TONIGHT BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
THAT WE HAD ALL OF THAT
INFORMATION WHEN WE MET AT THE
WORKING SESSION ABOUT WHERE IT
DOES SCORE AND WHAT IN ORDER TO
PROGRAM IT FOR WHEN IT WOULD BE
FUNDED, WHAT WOULD MOVE.
>> SO YEAH, I AND THAT'S ALSO
WHY I'M I WAS JUST TRYING MY
QUESTION WAS REALLY ABOUT LIKE
THE ABOUT THE GENERAL SCHAUS
RELATED TO EACH OTHER.
>> I AM COMFORTABLE WITH WHERE
THIS IS ESPECIALLY BECAUSE I
THINK THE NEXT TIME WE SEE THIS
AND THE ENGAGEMENT PLAYS OUT WE
WILL KNOW WHICH OF THESE TWO
LINES SHOULD BE TWEAKED RIGHT.
>> WHICH ONE SHOULD COME OFF OR
SHOULD BE TWEAKED OTHERWISE.
>> SO THAT I THINK THAT MAKES A
LOT OF SENSE.
THANK YOU.
ARE WE READY TO VOTE MANAGER
KELLY, WOULD YOU DO A ROLL CALL
VOTE FOR US PLEASE ON THE
MOTION AS PRESENTED WISCH YES.
>> HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
LEE YES, YES, YES.
MILLS YES.
>> WHETHER IT BE YES.
>> NORTON YES.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU MISS
COLEMAN.
WE WILL SEE YOU AGAIN NEXT
YEAR.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
OK, EXCELLENT.
HAVE A GOOD EVENING.
OH, ALL RIGHT.
>> THAT BRINGS US TO AGENDA
ITEM NUMBER ELEVEN OTHER
BUSINESS.
THIS IS US REVIEWING OUR
CALENDAR FOR TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
AND THERE IS A PRESENTATION BY
MANAGER KELLY PRESENTATION TO
BE GENEROUS BUT NOT TO JUST TO
SHARE THAT THERE WAS REALLY
GREAT IDEA FOR A WORKING
SESSION PROPOSAL ON BUILDING
MATERIALS AND DOING SOME
EDUCATION AROUND FOR EXAMPLE
ACROSS LAMINATED TIMBER AND
SOME RELATED TOPICS THAT WAS
ORIGINALLY SLATED FOR YOUR NINE
NINE WORKING SESSION THAT WAS
THROUGH SOME CHANNELS AND
CONTEXT THAT COMMISSIONER LEE
HAD.
HOWEVER, THAT WE'LL NEED MORE
TIME TO COME TO FRUITION AND
WE'RE PROPOSING TO TRY AND
BRING THAT TOGETHER PROBABLY IN
NOVEMBER.
>> YOUR STAFF TEAM FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, MR. LEONARD
AND MR. BENNETT WERE ASKED IF
THEY WOULD LIKE TO BRING
SOMETHING IN PARTICULAR TO THAT
WORKING SESSION AND THEY DID
NOT THINK THEY HAD ANYTHING
PRESSING OR THAT IT WAS THE
RIGHT LIKE MOMENT.
SO WE'RE PROPOSING TO CANCEL
THAT MEETING AND WE ARE ALSO
PROPOSING TO MOVE THE MEETING
WHERE YOU WOULD APPROVE THE
VERSION THREE DRAFT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO AN
EARLIER TIME SLOT AT FIVE
THIRTY.
SO THOSE ARE THE CHANGES
PRESENTED IN THIS CALENDAR.
>> SO TO CLARIFY, WE'RE
CANCELING THE SEPTEMBER 9TH
WORKING SESSION AND WE'RE
CHANGING THE START TIME OF THE
REGULAR MEETING ON OCTOBER 7TH.
CORRECT FROM SEVEN P.M. TO FIVE
THIRTY PM THAT IS CORRECT.
>> GREAT.
LET ME READ THE MOTION AND THEN
I'LL CALL ON YOU COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE.
SO THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVES THE PROPOSED CALENDAR
CHANGES AS PRESENTED IN
TONIGHT'S PACKET MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER DISH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE I JUST
WANTED TO CHECK WE HAD TALKED
AT ONE POINT ABOUT HAVING A
RETREAT KIND OF AND THAT THE
DATES DIDN'T WORK OUT AND I
JUST DIDN'T KNOW IF THAT HAD
GOTTEN BACK ON A CALENDAR OR IF
THAT'S ANYTHING THAT NEEDED TO
BE DONE AHEAD OF TIME OR IT IS
NOT BACK ON THE CALENDAR.
I HAVE HAD A NUMBER
OF DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THAT WITH
MANAGER LEONARD AND VIS THE
JUST THE ACTIVITY WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN I WAS GOING
TO I HAD INTENDED TO SEND OUT
ALREADY AN UPDATED POLL TO
COMMISSIONERS TO SEE WHAT
AVAILABILITY WOULD BE.
HOWEVER, WITH SOME OUT
OF OFFICE TIME INCLUDING SICK
TIME, I FELL BEHIND ON THAT UM
,I WOULD BE CURIOUS TO KNOW
WHAT THE MOOD OF THE COMMISSION
IS IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO PROGRAM
SOMETHING AND WE COULD, YOU
KNOW, BUNDLE UP WITH SCARVES
AND COATS AND HAVE A CRISP WALK
OR IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
POSTPONE IT TILL AFTER WE GET
THROUGH THE THE FINISH LINE
WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN,
I'M OPEN TO YOUR FEEDBACK.
LET'S HEAR FROM THE COMMISSION
IF FOLKS HAVE THOUGHT ABOUT
THAT YOU SPEAK PERSONALLY.
>> WE HAVE THREE MONTHS
OF DECENT WEATHER STILL TO GO.
>> BUT BUT IF THAT'S NOT I MEAN
I'M OUTSIDE ALL THE TIME ANYWAY
SO IT DOESN'T REALLY MATTER TO
ME BUT WHETHER IT BE IS YES
HAMMERSCHMIDT I'D STILL BE
INTERESTED AND I WAS GOING TO
ASK THE SAME QUESTION.
ALL RIGHT.
GOT TO YES.
>> THIS DISH IS A YES OR ONCE.
I'M SORRY THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF GOOD WEATHER STILL AND IF
WE'RE IMPROVING THE COMP PLAN
ON THE 7TH OF OCTOBER THERE'S A
THERE'S A GOOD AT LEAST TWO IF
NOT THREE POSSIBLY FOUR WEEKS
OF TRULY PLEASANT WEATHER AND
YEAH, I MEAN FEBRUARY IS THE
ONLY MONTH BUT I WANT TO BE IN
FLORIDA.
>> YEAH.
I THINK I WOULD WANT TO KNOW
JUST WHAT LEVEL OF ABSENCES ARE
ACCEPTABLE.
SO IT WAS TWO PEOPLE WERE
UNABLE TO ATTEND LAST TIME AND
THAT SEEMED NOT UH NOT GOOD
ENOUGH.
SO I'M WONDERING IF WE I WE
ALREADY HAVE SOME ABSENCES FOR
THE WORKING SESSION SLOTS WHICH
IS A CONVENIENT TIME TO PUT
THESE SO I ALREADY KNOW THERE
WILL BE FOR THE REST OF THE
YEAR PROBABLY ABSENCES FROM
SOME COMMISSIONERS ON WORKING
SESSION.
SO WHAT IS A GOOD DO WE NEED
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
OF PARTICIPATION UH MINIMUM SIX
MEMBERS I GUESS I WAS KIND
OF GOING WITH UM MAJORITY BUT
MORE THAN QUORUM OK THOUGHTS
AND I DON'T I DON'T WANT TO PUT
ANY YOU KNOW I WANT EVERYONE TO
PARTICIPATE BUT CALENDARING IS
THAT IS REALLY THE OBSTACLE
HERE.
>> NOT SURE.
>> REMIND ME AGAIN WHAT WHAT
THE PURPOSE OF THIS WAS TO BE.
WE'RE GOING TO GO SEE SOME
SITES OR WHAT WAS WHAT WAS THE
IDEA?
>> YEAH ACTUALLY I COULD MAYBE
HAND THAT ONE OVER TO YOUR
CHAIR WHO PARTICIPATED AND YOUR
FORMER CHAIR WHO AND YOUR
CURRENT SECRETARY CURRENT
SECRETARY.
>> THE THREE OF US AND WE'RE
HERE.
YEAH SURE.
YEAH.
>> WILL OUR GO TO COMMISSIONER
LEE FIRST IT WAS INTENDED TO BE
A RETREAT FOR US TO DO SOME
BONDING OUTSIDE OF THE
COMMISSION CHAMBERS AND THEN
ALSO TO TAKE A LOOK AT SOME
CONFLICT SITES WHERE AND THIS
IS LIKE DURING THE APPLICATION
OF THE ACTUAL COMPLINE RIGHT TO
TAKE A LOOK AT TRANSITION SITES
.
>> WHAT DOES IT LOOK LIKE?
WHAT DOES IT FEEL LIKE?
WHERE DO WE SEE CERTAIN ISSUES
?
SO I THINK THE INTENT WAS TO
TAKE A LOOK AT I THINK PACARD
AND WE TALKED ABOUT ACTUALLY
BIKING AROUND BUT I KNOW THAT
WE ALSO SAID PERHAPS NOT IT
WOULD BE WEATHER DEPENDENT BUT
INTENDED TO BE A RETREAT AND A
BONDING EXPERIENCE FOR LIKE THE
REST OF THE COMMISSION.
>> SO HOPEFULLY THAT IS THAT
YEAH.
>> YEAH.
I WOULD CONCUR
ADD PACARD BUT
ALSO
WHAT IS THE DEVELOPMENT
THAT'S KNOWN AS FIVE CORNERS TO
SEE THAT TAKE A LOOK AT SEVEN
TWENTY ONE S FORESTS BECAUSE
THE COMMISSION VOTED THAT DOWN
BUT NOW IT'S BUILT SO THAT WE
COULD SEE WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE IN
THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT.
>> WE ALSO DISCUSSED TALKING
ABOUT WHERE THE D TO D ONE
INTERSECTIONS ARE IN THE CITY
SO THAT WE COULD SEE HOW THAT
IS YOU KNOW IN THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT.
>> SO IT WAS MOSTLY DOWNTOWN
ALSO ON THE WE WE DID YEAH WE
DID MENTION S INDUSTRIAL AS
WELL BUT WE WERE THINKING THE
NEW PACKARD ROAD I THINK
DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE IT WAS SORT
OF LIKE A INFILL BUT NOT QUITE
BECAUSE IT WAS A REDEVELOPMENT
OF A PARKING LOT TYPE OF THING.
SO WE JUST WANT IT TO SORT
OF LOOK AT DECISIONS THAT WE'RE
MAKING AT THE TABLE WHAT THEY
LOOK LIKE IN THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT SO THAT WE HAVE A
BETTER SENSE OF BOUNDARIES AND
ESPECIALLY AS WE WERE THINKING
AT THAT TIME THERE WERE THREE
DISTRICTS RESIDENTIAL
TRANSITION HUB.
SO WE WERE TALKING THROUGH WHAT
WITH THESE TRANSITIONS LOOK
LIKE IN THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT
IF THEY WERE APPROVED IN THE
WAY THAT THE MAP AT THE TIME
WAS BEING DISCUSSED, WE'LL GO
FIRST TO MILLS THAT GO TO
NORTON.
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT THAT
WOULD BE REALLY HELPFUL.
>> I MIGHT THINK NOW ABOUT
WHERE WE ARE IN THIS TIME
PERIOD.
WE'RE AT THAT WHEN WE HAVE THIS
SORRY HAVING THIS RETREAT WOULD
BE A TIME WHEN WE'RE ALREADY
CIRCULATING A DRAFT THAT IT'S
LIKE PRETTY CLOSE TO BIOLAB.
AND SO I THINK THAT WE SHOULD
BE THINKING ABOUT THE NEXT
STEPS THAT WE'RE GOING TO NEED
TO TAKE TO IMPLEMENT IT.
>> AND SO IN PARTICK ALOR I
THINK FIGURING OUT LIKE.
>> WE'VE TALKED ABOUT ALL
OF THESE DISTRICTS THAT WILL
TRANSLATE INTO ZONING KNOW
AREAS THAT TRANSLATE INTO THOSE
DISTRICTS CARROMERO GIRLS YOU
KNOW WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT
CATEGORIES CATEGORIES
TRANSLATING INTO VOTING
DISTRICTS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
26TH TEAM HOW THEY WOULD BE
SELF ADJUSTING.
AND SO I THINK THAT THINKING I
LIKE THAT IDEA NOW IT'S LESS
ABOUT WHERE THE BOUNDARIES ARE
AND MORE ABOUT THE ADJUSTING.
I ALSO THINK WE'VE TALKED A LOT
ABOUT WHAT FORM BASED CODES
MIGHT LOOK LIKE IN THE CONTEXT
OF WHAT ARE CURRENTLY ARE ONE
IN OUR TWO NEIGHBORHOODS.
AND SO I THINK DISTRICTS I
SHOULD SAY I THINK THAT IT
WOULD BE REAL USEFUL TO SEE A
COUPLE MAYBE MAYBE IT'S SOME
OF THOSE PICTURES THAT I TOOK I
MIGHT WRITE LIKE ON MY AND MY
WALK THROUGH TO SAY LIKE WHAT
IS THE FORM OF THIS BUILDING?
RIGHT.
SO I THINK THAT THAT WOULD BE
REALLY USEFUL BUT I WOULD AND I
SO I'M TOTALLY IN AND I WOULD
JUST SAY MAYBE WE SHOULD THINK
ABOUT WHAT SOME OF THE THORNIER
THINGS ARE GOING TO BE FOR THE
IMPLEMENTATION TO HELP DIRECT
OUR ITINERARY.
>> SO IT LOOKS LIKE WE HAVE
AGREEMENT AT THE TABLE IF I'M
READING THE TABLE CORRECTLY, WE
STILL NEED TO ANSWER MANAGER
KELLY'S QUESTION OF WHAT IS A
MINIMUM NUMBER OF COMMISSIONERS
PRESENT?
>> I WOULD PROBABLY PROPOSE
OCTOBER 16TH.
IT WOULD NEED TO BE DAYTIME.
THAT IS A THAT WOULD BE YOUR
OCTOBER WORKING SESSION SLOT.
I'M NOT MISTAKEN WE'LL HAVE
ACCESS TO THEIR CALENDARS WHILE
WE'RE TALKING.
>> I ACTUALLY WON'T BE IN TOWN
SO OK BUT IT'S OK.
>> YOU GUYS CAN CALL AND
BECAUSE IT'S A REGULAR NO IT'S
A THIRD TUESDAY SO IT'S A
WORKING SESSION BUT THE
THURSDAY OH I'M SORRY IT'S A
THIRD MEETING IT WAS
RESCHEDULED BUT IF IT WERE
OFFSITE WE WOULD STILL WE STILL
HAVE TO NOTICE AND IT IT WON'T
BE RECORDED AND WE WILL THIS
WAS SOME OF THE CHALLENGE
BECAUSE WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
VIKINGS SO THAT WE COULD
EXPERIENCE IT, YOU KNOW, ON THE
GROUND.
BUT BEING ABLE TO GET BETWEEN
ENOUGH SITES.
>> BUT THEN THERE WAS A LOT
OF LOGISTICS ABOUT THAT.
>> I'M NOT A BIG BIKER SO WE
UNDERSTOOD WE WERE WE WERE
GOING TO GET SOME DIFFERENT
KINDS OF BIKES TO MAKE IT THAT
WAS MY IDEA.
>> THAT PROPOSAL WAS NOT BASED
ON THE NUMBER OF COMMISSIONERS
WE EVEN HAD BICYCLE'S OR WE'RE
NOT WE ARE NOT GOING TO PROPOSE
WHAT WAS PROPOSED IS WHAT WAS
IN THE ORIGINAL EMAIL.
WHAT'S IN QUESTION IS THE DATE
WITH OCTOBER 21ST WORK IT'S
DIWALI BUT WE DON'T HAVE DO WE
HAVE A SCHEDULED MEETING THAT
WE DID?
>> HOWEVER, THERE WAS A
CONFLICT WITH THIS ROOM DUE TO
THE POLICE OVERSIGHT BOARD.
BUT IF WE ARE NOT USING THIS
ROOM THEN WE COULD WE COULD USE
THAT DATE THAT WOULD WORK.
I'M AVAILABLE.
DOES ANYONE HAVE A CONFLICT FOR
THE I MEAN THE DAYLIGHT WILL
END SOONER THEN SO IT WOULD NOT
BE AN EVENING TO BE A FIVE
ENGAGEMENT OR NO IT WOULD NOT
BE A FIVE THIRTY START TO WALK
AROUND IN THE DARK WOULD
PROBABLY BE NOT NOT IDEAL BE
EARLY AFTERNOON COMMISSIONER UM
I I MY WORK DAY DOES NOT END
UNTIL FOUR OK YEAH.
>> SUNSET FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH A
DAY IS SIX FORTY THREE OH
THAT'S GOOD.
DO YOU WORK ON CENTRAL CAMPUS.
I DO SO I I COULD EASILY BE AT
CITY HALL BY FOUR SO WE COULD
START AT SEVEN TWENTY ONE S FOR
US AND THEN COMMISSIONER DASH
COULD MEET US THERE WE COULD
READJUST THE PROPOSAL WE WERE
THINKING TO GO TO SHOW
TRANSITION ZONES IN S
INDUSTRIAL TO SHOW AND ANN
ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION SITE
THAT IS UNDER CONSIDERATION UH
AND DISCUSS SOME OF THE
CHALLENGES OVER THERE.
LOOK AT PACARD RO AND THERE
WERE A LOT THINGS THAT WE COULD
ACCOMPLISH ON FOOT AND THERE
WAS A REQUEST PREVIOUSLY TO GET
OUT OF DOWNTOWN BUT IT COULD BE
REORGANIZED IF IT MEETS THE
NEEDS OF THE COMMISSION TO
COVER MORE D1, D2 AND DOWNTOWN
SITES, IT JUST WOULD UM I COULD
PIVOT IF THAT IF IT'S OK TO BE
DOWNTOWN.
>> I THINK THERE WAS SOME
THOUGHT TO BE AROUND SEEING
THINGS DOWNTOWN.
DO WE START THERE?
>> I THINK THE BIG THING THAT
WE HAD AN ANSWER WAS HOW WE
TRANSPORT US FROM A SITE TO THE
NEXT SITE AND I THINK THAT'S
THE YEAH D WE ENVISION THIS TO
BE A WALKING TOUR RIGHT.
SO WE COULD DO THE CLOSE AREA
GIVEN THE THE CONSTRAINT ON
TIME AND THEN STAY IN THIS
WALKING AREA AND THEN LOOK FOR
A SPRING TIME TO MAYBE FOUR TO
SEVEN ON OCTOBER 21ST.
>> YEAH.
>> AND DOWNTOWN AREA SOMETHING
LIKE OR MAYBE THREE THIRTY TO
SIX THIRTY OR SOMETHING COULD
HAVE SOME LATE JOINER'S THAT
COULD WORK FOR EXAMPLE.
YEAH OKAY I WILL.
>> IS THAT OK WITH THE TABLE.
YEAH YEAH.
WE ARE ALSO STILL IN DISCUSSION
FOR THE CALENDAR SO THAT WE ARE
YEAH I JUST WANTED TO GET A
CLARIFICATION ARE ROBERT'S
RULES OF ORDER FOLKS WHO WILL
SEND ME AN EMAIL COMMISSIONER
MILLS THAT'S A FUN SUBSET
OF PEOPLE BUT I'LL JUST CLARIFY
I COULD STAY ONLY UNTIL SEVEN
ACTUALLY I HAVE A CONFLICT THAT
MAKE IT SO WHICH YEAH.
>> MATCHES WITH SUNSET IF YOU'D
LIKE TO.
I WOULD BE HAPPY TO INK THIS
RIGHT NOW IF YOU'D LIKE TO JUST
UH YES.
MAKE A FRIENDLY DRESS TUCKED
OVER TWENTY FIRST TO KEEP IT ON
THE CALENDAR AS A PLACEHOLDER
FOR YOUR RETREAT THAT I CAN
FOLLOW UP WITH DETAILS ON SITE
AND BY LOGISTICS COMMISSIONER
MILLS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
BE SO WE'RE GOING TO TAKE THAT
AS A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT.
YEAH THE ORIGINAL PARSERS ARE
OK WITH THAT.
YES GREAT.
>> AND THEN I THINK WE CAN DO A
VOICE VOTE AS SOON AS MANAGER
GETS READY.
>> GREAT.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR VOTE I I
SUPPOSE OK THE MOTION CARRIES
AS AMENDED.
>> THANK YOU.
I'M TAKING TWO VOTES.
DO WE NEED TO TAKE A SECOND
VOTE AND SOMEBODY IS GOING TO
SAY THE MOTION WAS AMENDED TO
ADD OCTOBER TWENTY SIX.
>> SO NOW LET'S RETURN TO THE
MAIN MOTION WHICH IS THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION.
TWENTY FOUR TWENTY FOUR SORRY
TWENTY FIRST THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE
PROPOSED CALENDAR CHANGES AS
PRESENTED IN TONIGHT'S PACKET
AND AMENDED AT THE TABLE.
>> OK, ALL THOSE IN FAVOR I ANY
OPPOSE.
OK, GREAT.
NOW WE ARE LEGIT.
THIS BRINGS US TO THANK YOU
TRICKILY.
THIS BRINGS US TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER TWELVE.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY.
PRESS STAR NINE IF ON PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IN
ZOOM FOR PHONE ACCESS EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME.
IF YOU ARE ON ZOOM YOU WILL
HEAR AN ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S
YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
ENSURE YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA
AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
>> THERE IS NO ONE IN THE
CHAMBER SO WE WILL GO TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
THERE IS ONE HENDRY'S CURRENTLY
MARK SCARROW YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES.
>> >> HELLO I
WAS JUST GOING TO
SAY THAT I HOPE THAT THAT
WALKING TOUR CAN SOMEHOW BE
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE.
>> I WOULD LOVE TO JOIN AND
JUST TO LISTEN AND SHARE YOUR
EXPERIENCES WALKING AROUND
THESE AREAS.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU.
THERE ARE NO FURTHER HANDS
RAISED AT THIS TIME.
I'M GOING TO CLOSE THE SECOND
COMMENT ISSUE ADDRESS MR.
SCARBRO COMMENT THE PUBLIC WILL
BE NOTICED ABOUT THIS MEETING
AND SO THEY SHOULD BE ABLE TO
ATTEND, IS THAT CORRECT?
>> YES, WE WILL DO A
GOVDELIVERY EMAIL IF YOU'RE
SIGNED UP FOR AS CITY EMAILS
INCLUDING A PLANNING DEPARTMENT
OR SPECIFICALLY THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT, YOU WILL GET A
BLAST NOTIFYING YOU OF WHEN OUR
AGENDA IS RELEASED.
YOU CAN ALSO FIND OUR AGENDAS
ON THE CITY'S REGISTAR PAGE AND
THERE WILL BE AN AGENDA FOR
THAT MEETING AS WELL DESCRIBING
THE MEETING POINT TYPICALLY
THOSE ARE NOT THAT WOULD NOT BE
FILMED BY C10 IT WOULD NOT
NECESSARILY HAVE A POINT IN
TIME.
WE WILL BE AT THIS LOCATION TEN
MINUTES AFTER THIS LOCATION
JUST TO GIVE YOU ALL THE
FREEDOM TO KIND OF MOVE AT THE
PACE THAT MEETS YOUR NEEDS.
HOWEVER, THE INITIAL MEETING
MEET UP LOCATION WOULD BE
PUBLICIZED AND AS PUBLIC
MEETING RESIDENTS ARE WELCOME
TO JOIN.
>> GREAT.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
THAT BRINGS US TO ITEM NUMBER
THIRTEEN COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS IS THERE SEEING NONE
I'M GOING TO MOVE US TO ITEM
NUMBER FOURTEEN ADJOURNMENT
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER DISH
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY WE ARE
ADJOURNED.
>> WE